round2 of improvements (#11)
ofirgall/learn-nvim: chapters/02-basic-config.md

---

## [Preconfigured Configurations](https://github.com/rockerBOO/awesome-neovim#preconfigured-configuration)
There are several preconfigured configurations, these are the popular ones:
* [LunarVim](https://github.com/LunarVim/LunarVim)
* [AstroNvim](https://github.com/AstroNvim/AstroNvim)
* [NvChad](https://github.com/NvChad/NvChad)

#### LunarVim
Personally I skipped using a preconfigured configuration, but I highly suggest to use it as a starting point. [LunarVim](https://github.com/LunarVim/LunarVim) is the easiest to start with, [Installation link](https://www.lunarvim.org/01-installing.html).

Make sure you read and edit the default configuration to your taste.

---

## How to Install Plugins
I'll recommend several plugins along the way, make sure you are not lazy to install them.

#### How to download a plugin

> nvim plugins are git repositories, a package manager download and updates them, [packer](https://github.com/wbthomason/packer.nvim) is the standard one and it's already installed in LunarVim.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nvim plugins are git repositories, a package manager downloads and updates them, [packer](https://github.com/wbthomason/packer.nvim) is the standard one and it's already installed in LunarVim.
```

In LunarVim you will find:
```lua
Additional Plugins
lvim.plugins = {
    {"folke/tokyonight.nvim"},
    {
      "folke/trouble.nvim",
      cmd = "TroubleToggle",
    },
}
```

`lvim.plugins` is passed to [packer](https://github.com/wbthomason/packer.nvim), `folke/tokyonight.nvim` is a short for [github.com/folke/tokyonight.nvim](https://github.com/folke/tokyonight.nvim).

Useful Packer Commands:
* `:PackerInstall`
* `:PackerStatus`
* `:PackerUpdate`

_**Note**_: LunarVim runs packer commands for you.

#### How to configure a plugin

> Usually a plugin will provide a `setup` function which configures the plugin's behavior, most plugin's wont activate if the setup function isn't called.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usually a plugin will provide a `setup` function which configures the plugin's behavior, most plugins won't activate if the setup function isn't called.
```

> Usually the `setup` function receives a `table`, most plugins use the override standard, the keys in the table you pass will be override the default, other keys stays with the default value. \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usually the `setup` function receives a `table`, most plugins use the override standard - the keys in the table you pass will override the default, other keys keep their default value. \
```

The defaults are usually in the plugin `README` and in the `:help <plugin>`

_**Note**_: I recommend to start backing up your config with some kind of dotfiles, I use [dotbot](https://github.com/anishathalye/dotbot).

#### Recommended Plugins to Start With

> * Make sure you peek a [colorscheme](https://github.com/rockerBOO/awesome-neovim#colorscheme) you like or create your own like I [did](https://github.com/ofirgall/ofirkai.nvim).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Make sure you pick a [colorscheme](https://github.com/rockerBOO/awesome-neovim#colorscheme) you like or create your own like I [did](https://github.com/ofirgall/ofirkai.nvim).
```

> * [auto-session](https://github.com/rmagatti/auto-session) - Auto save your session, you can jump back to your session after exiting/restarting nvim.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [auto-session](https://github.com/rmagatti/auto-session) - Auto save your session, so you can jump back to your session after exiting/restarting nvim.
```

* [vim-tmux-navigator](https://github.com/christoomey/vim-tmux-navigator) - great plugin for tmux users.

> * [Comment.nvim](https://github.com/numToStr/Comment.nvim) - Adds comment operation (LunarVim installs it already).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Comment.nvim](https://github.com/numToStr/Comment.nvim) - Adds comment operation (included in LunarVim's [core plugins](https://www.lunarvim.org/plugins/01-core-plugins-list.html)).
```

* [lsp_signature.nvim](https://github.com/ray-x/lsp_signature.nvim) - Show function signature when you type.

##### [auto-save.nvim](https://github.com/Pocco81/auto-save.nvim) 

> I hated using autosave in other text editors, but because vim has modes it knows exactly when a text changed. \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I hated using autosave in other text editors, but because vim has modes it knows exactly when a text was changed. \
```

> On `InsertLeave` which triggered when you leave Insert mode, and on `TextChanged` which triggered when text changed in normal mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On `InsertLeave` which is triggered when you leave Insert mode, and on `TextChanged` which is triggered when text was changed in normal mode.
```

Autosave + autoformat = annoying behavior. Make sure you disable auto format, I wrote a [simple plugin](https://github.com/ofirgall/format-on-leave.nvim) to format when I switch buffers.

 How to disable autoformat in LunarVim:
```lua

> TODO: fill

Reviewer: ```suggestion
lvim.format_on_save = false
```

```

Autosave + live config refresh = annoying behavior. Make sure you disable autosave in your config if you like live config refresh.\
An example for how to do it in LunarVim:

```lua

> TODO: fill example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
local user_config_file = require("lvim.config"):get_user_config_path()
require("auto-save").setup {
  enabled = true,

  condition = function(buf)
    local fn = vim.fn
    local utils = require("auto-save.utils.data")

    if vim.api.nvim_buf_get_name(buf) == user_config_file then
      return false
    end

    if fn.getbufvar(buf, "&modifiable") == 1 and
        utils.not_in(fn.getbufvar(buf, "&filetype"), {}) then
      return true -- met condition(s), can save
    end
    return false -- can't save
  end,
}
```

```

---

## Options

> Options control the behavior of nvim, options can be `boolean`, `number` or a `string`. \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Options control the behavior of nvim, they can be set to `boolean`, `number` or `string`. \
```

> To set an option type `:set <option>`, to see the current value of an option `:set <option>?`. \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set an option type `:set <option>`, to see the current value of an option use `:set <option>?`. \
```

> boolean options are set on/off by setting them and setting them as `no<option>`. \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
boolean options are enabled by `:set <option>` and disabled by `:set no<option>`. \
```

> E.g: `:set relativenumber` turns on `relativenumber` to turn off `:set norelativenumber`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
E.g: `:set relativenumber` enables `relativenumber` and `:set norelativenumber` disables it.
```

> Every option as a help tag for it, for example `:h relativenumber` \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every option has a help tag for it, for example `:h relativenumber` \
```

The options are listed in `:h option-list`.

In nvim you can access the options by `vim.opt`

### Sensible Options
```lua
local opt = vim.opt

opt.number = true -- Enables line numbers
opt.relativenumber = true -- Enables relative line numbers
opt.autoindent = true -- Indent automatically
opt.cursorline = true -- Enables cursor line
opt.ignorecase = true -- Ignore case when searching
opt.splitright = true -- Split to the right on vertical
opt.splitbelow = true -- Split below when horizontal
opt.swapfile = false -- Don't use swap files (I use auto-save.nvim instead)
opt.updatetime = 100 -- mainly for trld.nvim which utilize CursorHold autocmd
opt.formatoptions:append('cro') -- continue comments when going down a line, hit C-u to remove the added comment prefix
```

---

## Key mapping

> Key map can be set to a specific modes. \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Key map can be set to specific modes. \
```

The important ones:
* `n` - Normal mode
* `i` - Insert mode
* `x` - Visual & Select mode
* `v` - Visual mode
* `:h map-commands` for the full mode list

To set a keymap you should use `vim.keymap.set` or even better a `map` function with default value for `opts`.
```lua
local function map(mode, lhs, rhs, opts)
	opts = opts or { silent = true }
	vim.keymap.set(mode, lhs, rhs, opts)
end
```

> * `mode` - the mode the keymap is added to, can be a single mode `'n'`, table of modes `{'n', 'x'}`, or empty `''` for all modes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `mode` - mode for which the keymap is added to, can be a single mode `'n'`, table of modes `{'n', 'x'}`, or empty `''` for all modes.
```

* `lhs` - The key you need to press to activate the key map
* `rhs` - Can be a lua function to call or a string to let vim "type", for example `nzz` executes `n` and then `zz` which are binded to `next` and `recenter`.
* `opts` - Table of options for the keymap, read more at `:h map-arguments`

---

## Autocommands
> An autocommand is a command that is executed automatically in response to some

> event, such as a file being read or written or a buffer change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
event, such as a file being read or written, or a buffer change.
```

> For example a good autocommand to highlight the text that has yanked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example a good autocommand to highlight the text that was yanked.
```

```lua
-- Highlight on yank
vim.api.nvim_create_autocmd('TextYankPost', {
	pattern = '*',
	callback = function() vim.highlight.on_yank({timeout=350, higroup='Visual'}) end
})
```

Plugins can add custom autocommands too! \
For all the builtin autocmds see `:h autocmd-list`.

Read `:h nvim_create_autocmd` for full explanation.

---

## Shell Setup

> Dont forget to set nvim as your default terminal editor like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Don't forget to set nvim as your default terminal editor like so:
```

```
export EDITOR='nvim'
```

---

## Plugin Tools

> The preconfigured configuration handles the installation of LSP and Treesitter, you don't need to worry about handling it, but its recommended to understand both of this tools to understand how other plugins utilize it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preconfigured configuration handles the installation of LSP and Treesitter, so you don't need to worry about handling it, but it's recommended to familiarize yourself with both of these tools to understand how other plugins utilize them.
```
